---
layout: post
title: I am not an independant scholar
---

I am not an independant scholar. Yes, it is true that at the moment I do not have an institutional affiliation, and I do scholarship, but I am not an independant scholar.

I am convinced that independant scholars are few and far between. To do scholarship without institutional support takes tremendous resources. Scholarship takes time, and lots of it, and (as the old adage says) time is money. Time doing scholarship independantly is time not spent making money in the least complex case. For those of us with families, it is not only time that we are not paid for, but it is also frequently time that we have to pay other people for. Before I started here at the Newberry, I did scholarship in little bits and pieces between family obligations. My "indepenant" status was very much dependant on the support and cooperation of others.

Because I do not have an institutional affiliation, I do not have digital library access. Thus, I am limited to the research I have available at home or to buying time at the library by paying for childcare.

The term "independant scholar" is really very offensive for those of us working desperately to balance the competing demands of economic necessity, family obligations, and requirements to keep up with changes and developments in our fields. When I hear or read the term "independant scholar", the image it conjures up in my head is of a gentleman whose living is generated by his landed estate able to devote his considerable leisure to solving esoteric problems. Perhaps a modern equivalent would be someone of independant means, either though investment income or a retirement pension, with lots and lots of time on their hands.

I know that isn't the case for me, and I can't imagine that it is a really accurate description for most of us stuck in job limbo but who have not yet given up entirely.